README.md, before:

# [Weather-API-Wrapper-Service](https://roadmap.sh/backend/project-ideas#3-weather-api-wrapper-service)

A simple Node.js/Express API wrapper for any external weather service. 
It caches weather data in Redis to reduce API calls and improve response times.

## Table of Contents

- [High Level System Overview](#high-level-system-overview)
- [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Weather API Integration](#weather-api-integration)
  - [How It Works in This Project](#how-it-works-in-this-project)
  - [Example Request & Response](#example-request--response)
- [Linting & Formatting](#linting--formatting)
  - [Pre-commit Hooks (Husky + lint-staged)](#pre-commit-hooks-husky--lint-staged)
- [Dependency Graph](#dependency-graph)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [Commit Message Convention](#commit-message-convention)
  - [Code Quality](#code-quality)
  - [Development Workflow](#development-workflow)


## High Level System Overview
<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/System-Overview-Weather-API-Wrapper-Service.png" alt="Weather API Logo" />
</p>

- Client calls our API
- Our API:
    1. checks Redis cache
    2. if data exists → return it
    3. else → call external Weather API
    4. save response in cache (with expiration)
    5. return response to client

## Tech Stack
- TypeScript
- Node.js (v22.20.0), NPM (11.7.0)
- Express
- Redis (in-memory cache)

## Installation
1. Clone the repo:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/TheNourhan/Weather-API-Wrapper-Service.git
cd Weather-API-Wrapper-Service
```
2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```
3. Create a .env file:
```bash
PORT=3000
REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379
WEATHER_API_KEY=<your-api-key>
WEATHER_API_URL=YOUR_WEATHER_API_URL_HERE
REDIS_TTL_SECONDS=43200
```
4. Run in development:
```bash
npm run dev
```
5. Prepare Husky hooks:
- This installs Husky hooks locally. After that, pre-commit hooks will run automatically on every commit.
```bash
npm run prepare
```

## Weather API Integration
This project uses the [Visual Crossing Weather API](https://www.visualcrossing.com/weather-api/) to fetch weather data for any location.

### How It Works in This Project
- The API is called through our Node.js/Express backend.

- Requests are cached in Redis to reduce repeated API calls and improve performance.

- **You can fetch**:

  - Current weather or 15-day forecast: `GET /weather/:city`

  - Timeline forecast for a location: <br>
`GET /weather/timeline/:location` <br>
`GET /weather/timeline/:location/:date1` <br>
`GET /weather/timeline/:location/:date1/:date2`

### Example Request & Response
#### Request:
```http
GET http://localhost:3000/weather/timeline/saudi%20arabia/2024-10-19
Content-Type: application/json
```
#### Response:
```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "data": {
    "resolvedAddress": "Saudi Arabia",
    "days": [
      {
        "datetime": "2024-10-19",
        "temp": 29.9,
        "tempmax": 37,
        "tempmin": 23,
        "humidity": 19,
        "conditions": "Clear",
        "description": "Clear conditions throughout the day."
      }
    ],
    "source": "cache"
  }
}
```

## Linting & Formatting
This project uses **ESLint** and **Prettier** to ensure code quality and consistent formatting.
### Run ESLint
- Check for linting errors:
```bash
npm run lint
```
- Automatically fix linting issues:
```bash
npm run lint:fix
```
### Format Code with Prettier
- Format all source files:
```bash
npm run format
```

### Pre-commit Hooks (Husky + lint-staged)
- Before every commit, `lint-staged` runs ESLint and Prettier on all staged files.
- Commits will fail if there are linting errors or warnings.
- Staged files are automatically fixed where possible.

## Dependency Graph
This is the dependency graph, a visual representation of the project's file dependencies. It shows how the files in the project depend on each other, rather than the dependencies in `node_modules`. This can be helpful for understanding the structure and relationships within the project.
<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/graph.png" alt="Weather API Logo" />
</p>

### Generate or Update the Graph
This project uses [Madge](https://www.npmjs.com/package/madge) to generate dependency graphs.
1. Install dependencies: 
```bash
sudo apt install graphviz # Required for visual graphs
```
2. Run the script to generate the graph:
```bash
npm run dep-graph
```
3. The graph will be saved as graph.png in the project root.

## Contributing
Thank you for considering contributing to this project!

#### Commit Message Convention
This project follows a simple and consistent commit message convention
to keep the Git history clean, readable, and easy to navigate.

#### Format:
`<type>: <short description>`

#### Commit Types:
- **feat**: A new feature  
  Example: `feat: add weather caching with Redis`

- **fix**: A bug fix  
  Example: `fix: handle missing city parameter`

- **docs**: Documentation only changes  
  Example: `docs: update README installation steps`

- **refactor**: Code changes that neither fix a bug nor add a feature  
  Example: `refactor: extract weather controller`

- **cleanup**: Removing unused code, formatting, or minor improvements  
  Example: `cleanup: remove unused imports`

- **style**: Code style changes (spacing, formatting, no logic changes)  
  Example: `style: format weather service`

- **test**: Adding or updating tests  
  Example: `test: add unit tests for weather service`

- **chore**: Tooling, config, or dependency updates  
  Example: `chore: configure husky and lint-staged`

#### Notes
- Use **present tense** (“add”, not “added”)
- Keep messages **short and clear**
- One commit = one logical change

### Code Quality
- ESLint and Prettier are enforced via pre-commit hooks
- Commits will fail if linting errors exist

### Development Workflow
- Create a feature branch
- Open a pull request to `main`

Commit message:

test: add Jest tests for weather service and controller

README.md, after:

# [Weather-API-Wrapper-Service](https://roadmap.sh/backend/project-ideas#3-weather-api-wrapper-service)

A simple Node.js/Express API wrapper for any external weather service. 
It caches weather data in Redis to reduce API calls and improve response times.

## Table of Contents

- [High Level System Overview](#high-level-system-overview)
- [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Weather API Integration](#weather-api-integration)
  - [How It Works in This Project](#how-it-works-in-this-project)
  - [Example Request & Response](#example-request--response)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Linting & Formatting](#linting--formatting)
  - [Pre-commit Hooks (Husky + lint-staged)](#pre-commit-hooks-husky--lint-staged)
- [Dependency Graph](#dependency-graph)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [Commit Message Convention](#commit-message-convention)
  - [Code Quality](#code-quality)
  - [Development Workflow](#development-workflow)


## High-Level System Overview
<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/System-Overview-Weather-API-Wrapper-Service.png" alt="Weather API Logo" />
</p>

- Client calls our API
- Our API:
    1. checks Redis cache
    2. if data exists → return it
    3. else → call external Weather API
    4. save response in cache (with expiration)
    5. return response to client

## Tech Stack
- TypeScript
- Node.js (v22.20.0), NPM (11.7.0)
- Express
- Redis (in-memory cache)

## Installation
1. Clone the repo:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/TheNourhan/Weather-API-Wrapper-Service.git
cd Weather-API-Wrapper-Service
```
2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```
3. Create a .env file:
```bash
PORT=3000
REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379
WEATHER_API_KEY=<your-api-key>
WEATHER_API_URL=YOUR_WEATHER_API_URL_HERE
REDIS_TTL_SECONDS=43200
```
4. Run in development:
```bash
npm run dev
```
5. Prepare Husky hooks:
- This installs Husky hooks locally. After that, pre-commit hooks will run automatically on every commit.
```bash
npm run prepare
```

## Weather API Integration
This project uses the [Visual Crossing Weather API](https://www.visualcrossing.com/weather-api/) to fetch weather data for any location.

### How It Works in This Project
- The API is called through our Node.js/Express backend.

- Requests are cached in Redis to reduce repeated API calls and improve performance.

- **You can fetch**:

  - Current weather or 15-day forecast: `GET /weather/:city`

  - Timeline forecast for a location: <br>
`GET /weather/timeline/:location` <br>
`GET /weather/timeline/:location/:date1` <br>
`GET /weather/timeline/:location/:date1/:date2`

### Example Request & Response
#### Request:
```http
GET http://localhost:3000/weather/timeline/saudi%20arabia/2024-10-19
Content-Type: application/json
```
#### Response:
```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "data": {
    "resolvedAddress": "Saudi Arabia",
    "days": [
      {
        "datetime": "2024-10-19",
        "temp": 29.9,
        "tempmax": 37,
        "tempmin": 23,
        "humidity": 19,
        "conditions": "Clear",
        "description": "Clear conditions throughout the day."
      }
    ],
    "source": "cache"
  }
}
```

## Testing
This project uses **Jest** for unit and integration testing, along with **Supertest** for HTTP API testing.

### Run Tests
- Run all tests with coverage:
```
npm test
```
- Run in watch mode:
```
npm run test:watch
```
- Debug tests
```
npm run test:debug
```

## Linting & Formatting
This project uses **ESLint** and **Prettier** to ensure code quality and consistent formatting.
### Run ESLint
- Check for linting errors:
```bash
npm run lint
```
- Automatically fix linting issues:
```bash
npm run lint:fix
```
### Format Code with Prettier
- Format all source files:
```bash
npm run format
```

### Pre-commit Hooks (Husky + lint-staged)
- Before every commit, `lint-staged` runs ESLint and Prettier on all staged files.
- Commits will fail if there are linting errors or warnings.
- Staged files are automatically fixed where possible.

## Dependency Graph
This is the dependency graph, a visual representation of the project's file dependencies. It shows how the files in the project depend on each other, rather than the dependencies in `node_modules`. This can help understand the structure and relationships within the project.
<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/graph.png" alt="Weather API Logo" />
</p>

### Generate or Update the Graph
This project uses [Madge](https://www.npmjs.com/package/madge) to generate dependency graphs.
1. Install dependencies: 
```bash
sudo apt install graphviz # Required for visual graphs
```
2. Run the script to generate the graph:
```bash
npm run dep-graph
```
3. The graph will be saved as graph.png in the project root.

## Contributing
Thank you for considering contributing to this project!

#### Commit Message Convention
This project follows a simple and consistent commit message convention
to keep the Git history clean, readable, and easy to navigate.

#### Format:
`<type>: <short description>`

#### Commit Types:
- **feat**: A new feature  
  Example: `feat: add weather caching with Redis`

- **fix**: A bug fix  
  Example: `fix: handle missing city parameter`

- **docs**: Documentation only changes  
  Example: `docs: update README installation steps`

- **refactor**: Code changes that neither fix a bug nor add a feature  
  Example: `refactor: extract weather controller`

- **cleanup**: Removing unused code, formatting, or minor improvements  
  Example: `cleanup: remove unused imports`

- **style**: Code style changes (spacing, formatting, no logic changes)  
  Example: `style: format weather service`

- **test**: Adding or updating tests  
  Example: `test: add unit tests for weather service`

- **chore**: Tooling, config, or dependency updates  
  Example: `chore: configure husky and lint-staged`

#### Notes
- Use **present tense** (“add”, not “added”)
- Keep messages **short and clear**
- One commit = one logical change

### Code Quality
- ESLint and Prettier are enforced via pre-commit hooks
- Commits will fail if linting errors exist

### Development Workflow
- Create a feature branch
- Open a pull request to `main`
